Called to expedite to a mental health patient by PD. Upon arrival, an officer met me in the driveway and told me that the patient "wasnt right". According to the wife, the patient had not taken any medications and was not a diabetic. Speaking with the wife, she told me that the patient was under a lot of stress lately and that he was sitting at the kitchen table while she was in the bathroom drawing a bath. She came out of the bathroom and the patient had gone into the bedroom, put on undershorts, socks and a work shirt then went into the bathroom and got into the tub, with his clothes on. Wife swore up and down that he hadnt taken any meds except for his allergy medication. She also stated that there was some old medication in the bathroom, but she only had it because she didnt know how or where to dispose of it and she was sure that he hadnt taken any of it.

I walked into the bedroom and found the patient flopped over on the bed with a state trooper standing next to him. The ficer told me that the patient was out cold but just a couple minutes ago the patient sat up, very confused and kept repeating that he had to go to work and then passed out again. He did this again a couple of times while I waited for additional help to extract him from the house. I got a uick medical history from the wife, checked a blood glucose, attempted a Cincinnatti Stroke Scale and did our Fibrinolytic Risk Assessment.

Findings:

blood glucose was 94 mg/dcl.

pulse 78 weak but regular.

respirations 18 regular and nonlabored

skin was cool and dry excpet for the wet clothes

got him out of the house, onto the stretcher and into the ambulance. as we were getting ready to run for the ED, the wife came out and stated that the patient had a TIA 18 months ago and had a nervous breakdown in 1998.

BP 150/100

cardiac monitor normal sinus rhythm

12 lead NSR with no ectopy

lung sounds clear in all fields

IV established and bloods drawn

pupils were pinpoint at 2 and reactive

med control denied narcan as the patient was relatively stable except for the altered mental status.

reassessment of vital signs were BP 142/90,pulse 62 weak but regular, respirations 18 and non labored.

the patient continued to pass out and come to with the confused conversation that he had to go to work.
