Called for a 56 YOF "in and out of consciousness." Arrive to find a female on the bathroom floor, average body type for her age in a clean and well taken care of home. Patient is lying left lateral recumbant, breathing quietly about 24 x/min, very pale with "waxy" appearing skin, barely palpable radial pulse at ~70bpm, very cold to the touch, slightly clammy, oriented but responsive only to voice and reluctant to follow commands 2nd to lethargy. Fire can't get a manual pressure. SpO2 is 97% on RA. Lungs are clear. Husband reports a history of HTN, high cholesterol, hypothyroidism, with associated medications and an allergy to Sulfonamides. Husband reports that the patient has been feeling ill for the past several weeks and was recently diagnosed with an infection (doesn't know what) and prescribed PCN, which she has been taking for about two weeks with no ill effect. Husband reports that the patient has been constipated and using stool softeners. Patient was reported to have been heading to the bathroom when she got suddenly weak, laid on the floor, became somnolent, and husband called 911.

Moved patient to gurney, placed trendelenburg, no palpable radial pulse, can't auscultate a blood pressure. After two IVs and just 500cc of fluid patient has strong radial pulses and a BP of 142/100. Physical exam reveals no neural deficits and right-sided abdominal tenderness w/ nausea...all else is normal except what's been mentioned above. BG is 140, 12-Lead shows no ST changes or blocks with left atrial enlargement, NSR throughout transport.

Delivered the patient to the ED with no changes enroute. (Couldn't get further BPs because the manual cuff went MIA and the automated cuff started throwing faults...figures...however, patient maintained strong radials w/ continuous infusion of NS) ED automated BP was 113/?. IVs were stopped by staff. Patient began to decrease in LOC (over about 10 mins). Manual BP was evaluated at 48 systolic. IVs opened wide. Patient moved to another room, doc called, BP re-evaluated at 135/100, patient is now slightly responsive. Several minutes later patient is unresponsive, and incontinent of feces with a SBP of 66.

At this point I had to leave for another call, but the patient evidently remained hypotensive and was admitted.

Doc told me his initial diagnosis and I had to go do some reading.


