Dispatch: 1 y/o Seizures

General: 10 mins to local ED, pediatric hospital available via helicopter only. 2pm on 75 degree sunny day.

Crew: You plus 1 EMT and an ALS engine company that arrives just after you.

You go on scene and you're at an apartment building in a low income area. Moms boyfriend meets you at the door and says "yeah, he's been shaking and he's not acting right". As you enter the living room mom is frantic and in tears, you see a 2 month old infant on the couch in a diaper only crying. Mother states: "I took him to the ER this morning because he had a seizure but they sent me home with tylenol and said he was fine!" She denies any Hx , Allergies , meds previous to today. She now says "He's been shaking and he won't stop crying". When asked what shaking means she says "more like twitching his arms and legs and his eyes won't close!"

Your PT is a 2month old who appears to be the right size (weight) is acting inappropriate for age (staring straight up, not tracking) and also crying and cannot be soothed. You see his belly going up and down and his color looks good but he feels hot. Mom says he has had a fever.

So what do you do right now?

You're now either still in the house (because you're somewhat brave) or in the ambulance. You're hooking the PT up to the monitor and taking a closer look. Mom and Boyfriend will no longer be able to provide much info except to deny pertinent negatives/positives (no vomiting, coughing, diarrhea, ate normally up until this morning, plenty of wet diapers until this morning, no trauma, no exposure to disease/sickness)

LOC - Altered, eyes are open but the PT is is just crying and staring up. No response to mother.

A- Airway is intact

B- Irregular, "wet" sounding lungs in all fields

C- Brachial @ 180, regular. Sinus Tach

Skin - normal color, hot, not wet

SP02 100% Room air

Sugar: 157

You tell the engine medic that the baby is breathing irregularly. He asks "How do you know that?" You say: "I can't tell the pattern but the speed keeps changing and ...."

The baby is now apneic.

Only change to above vitals:

Baby is now not crying

Baby is not breathing

(Pulse and skin do not change)

So what do you do right now?

30 seconds later the baby is breathing again, you're not sure if what you did caused that but it's breathing (so you can start breathing again now FYI). You're now Code 3 to the hospital (local? helicopter?). let's just say you're awesome and you get an IV right away. You're 5 minutes out and call in a report and sit back and try and collect your thoughts and you notice more as you do your detailed physical exam or focused exam just like national registry taught us!

The PTs eyes are bulging out. He looks like he's very interested in whatever is happening on the ceiling but they are obviously way larger and protruding say "like bug eyes". His head looks otherwise normal (right size, fontanels seem almost closed but aren't bulging). All other physical features seem to be WNL.

The PT is apneic again just prior to arrival.
