You respond to the park in a poor area of town for a 20 year old Brazilian male with shortness of breath.

HPI: Patient was playing basketball with family while at a picnic, when he became so short of breath he had to immediately stop playing. Sitting down and relaxing did not palliate the sensation and family requested EMS. He tells you that he has experienced mild short of breath for the past 6 months or so and has found that sometimes he is breathing fast even after simply walking to his house from his car. He has been hoping that he had a chest cold or allergies and that it would go away by itself. However, today it is much worse and he is worried. Mother on scene says patient has never been athletic and always tired easily which has always been chocked up as just not athletic, however she has noticed a decline in his condition the past half year. He has not seen a physician because of socioeconomic reasons, and has never really had a primary care physician.

Prior medical history: None. Patient does not see a physician.

Prior surgical history: None

Allergies: None

Medications: no prescription or OTC/vitamins/supplements taken.

Family history: diabetes and hypertension on the father's side

Social history: Born in Brazil at home, and immigrated to the United States 8 years ago. He and his family are impoverished, and the patient works at a local car body repair shop at the front desk. He does not drink or smoke, and lives with family in a house.

Review of systems: General: no fever. decreased exercise tolerance past six months. Patient is easily fatigued. HEENT: gums bleed easily when brushing teeth. slight yellow discoloration of sclera. Otherwise unremarkable. Cardio: patient states that he has had to keep his shoelaces untied because his ankles have swelled recently. Pulmonary: shortness of breath on exertion and very occasionally at rest. no fever, night sweats, cough. no asthma or wheezing GI: occasional dull pain in the RUQ. otherwise unremarkable.

physical.

Vitals: radial pulse: 100 bpm and regular. BP 130/84. resp rate 24, adequate depth. temp 98.8 F.

HEENT: Jaundiced and slightly blood injected sclera is noted. bilateral jugular venous pressure is elevated to cause obvious distention as 45 degrees. some cyanosis noted around the lips.

Pulm: Lungs are clear to auscultation. Chest is symmetrical and atraumatic. No scars noted

CV: A palpable right ventricular heave and thrill are felt at the left sternal border. A grade II-III holosystolic murmur, slightly harsh, is heard at the left lower sternal border. All peripheral pulses are easily palpated and are adequate.

GI: liver span is consistent with hepatomegaly by percussion and scratch test.

Extremities: Finger clubbing is noted, along with slight peripheral cyanosis. some pitting edema is noted at the ankles. Patient has several bruises on his legs, says he is bruising easily.

Your EKG monitor shows sinus tachycardia with no ectopy in lead two. Finger oximetry is 92% on room air.

You can ask for whatever study you would like. I will even give you labs if you ask for specific ones.
