Initial dispatch @ 1am: 39 yo female unresponsive by the river at 601.... yadda yadda (The potential causes were going crazy in my mind!)

In reality PT is in a nice RV/mobile home thing in a vacation park in bed with her husband standing there. (Pucker factor went way down!)

The PT is "shaking"... looks like shivering. No major movements of the body just tremors all over. Her eyes are also moving rapidly and randomly in small movements.

Seizure?

Well for some reason I do a sternal rub and ask "Mam can you hear me?" and her eyes stop jerking around and stare right at me until I move away.

I ask the husband about her medical history and he says (no joke): "She ate 15 packets of taco bell hot sauce for dinner". I reiterate the MEDICAL part of the question and get: "Thyroid problems and they think some medication of hers caused fluid to build up in her brain last year". He denies any history of seizures, stroke. but does say she has been feeling "sick" for a few days. He denies substance abuse and everything else I came up with.

Vitals: (And yes I got these during the possible "seizure")

GCS 9 (eyes wide open[4], no verbal noise at all[1], withdraws from pain [4])

HR 100 Sinus Tach no ectopy

BP 166/88

RR 12

Sp02 100% on 02 (BLS on scene already had her on a NRB)

BGL 96 (PT withdraws from pain during the stick, during the "seizure")

Pupils reactive, same size, right size

Skin PWD

So I don't know what the heck is going on because on one side I have no history of seizures, she can look at me, no incontinence, no oral trauma, not hot/warm/cold, no magic wand... So maybe this is a stroke, poison/OD, or some metabolic thing to do with her thyroid and the cerebral edema.

On the otherside she really looks like she is having a seizure and eventually wakes right up in the ED.

So thankfully despite my lack of recognition I'm able to move the call quickly and get her into the ambulance and moving. This is where I notice her body is still "tremoring" but now her eyes have stopped going crazy and she is even moving her head alittle to respond to me. Eventually the tremoring/shivering stops (she didn't feel cold but I turned the heat on so maybe that had an effect).

Still she counts as a GCS of maybe 11 if you say her head movement counts as normal motor/sensory.

So like I said at the ED I go back into her room and she has no memory of the event or me and is conversing totally normal without any complaints. The MD initially thought some kind of ingestion or a bleed. But the common perception after she woke up was a seizure.
