Pulled up on scene of a 24 y/o male pt found sitting upright on the porch steps, in care of the local FD. Pt is conscious and alert, however unable to identify to what level his alertness actually was at the time. This individual was noted to be breathing at appx 40x/min. Very shallow. Lungs were clear to auscultation in the apices of the lungs anteriorly and posteriorly, and diminished in the bilateral bases. We immediately placed the pt on the pulse ox and it showed o2 sats of 89% room air. I was crouched in front of the pt, attempting to calm his respirations by requesting that he look at me and breath with me and normally. The pt family member stated that he walked outside after an argument and began breathing in this manner. The pt is not able to answer questions, however when asked if he has any pain the pt does point to the center of his chest. The pt was then guided in an upright manner and placed on our stretcher. He was sat in an upright position of comfort, and I had my partner place a NRB on at 10 lpm. The pt was beginning to get aggitated at this point, and was attempting to climb off the stretcher. I was continuosly talking to the pt and attempting to calm him down verbally and reassure him that I was there with him and for him, and told him every single movement we were going to make.

Once in the truck, the cardiac monitor was placed on showing a sinus tach rhythm w/o ectopy at 132 bpm. Bp of 165/113. Respirations continued at appx 40 - 45 bpm. Pulse ox of 91% w/ nrb in place. We then began transport. As we began to drive, the pt then began to bob his head up and down and side to side, and w/in maybe 10 seconds of this became unresponsive, as I figured he would at somepoint. I think moved the monitor off of the back of the stretcher, and layed the pt supine, opened his airway utilizing the head/tilt chil/lift method. Pt respirations were appx 10/min at this time, and he was completely flaccid and unresponsive to sternal rub. I placed a nasal airway, and provided bvm respirations at 12/min, w/ high flow o2 @ 15lpm. This lasted appx 4 min, and upon arrival at the hospital the pt opened his eyes and was looking up at me providing ventilations. I immediately welcomed the pt back to a responsive state and explained to him where he was and who I was and what I was doing. I removed the bvm, and the pt gently reached up and removed the nasal airway. The pt now had regained control of his respirations and was breathing appx 16/min, w/ adequate air movement into the bases, clear throughout auscultation. I then replaced the NRB and maintained it at 10lpm. o2 sat of 99% on room air. Pt w/ complaint of slight chest tightness upon arrival. Pt states he does remember me coming to the scene, however nothing from then on.

Phew......Now, we enter the hospital, and are in the "line" waiting to see the triage nurse, and she comes out and says she needs to know what every unit is here for. She asks my, and I begin to give her a bit of the situation. She then stops me in my sentence and says "I need two words, thats it, two words so that I can make a disposition". I tell her --"hyperventilation". She then says, "well why is he on oxygen then? Get the oxygen off of him". I said, "Well can I explain what had happened?" and she proceeded to tell me that I need to get the oxygen off of him if he was hyperventilating as this will continue to cause him to hyperventilate. From this point on she would not allow me to describe to her the scenario as I saw it, and stated that If I continue to maltreat pt's then she will continue to not listen to what I have to say about the scene, and she will form her own conclusions!!!!! I was utterly shocked. Not a single indiviual providing care for this pt from this point on asked me a thing about the scene!


