We were dispatched to a correctional facility with the initial dispatch of a BLS sick call.

Upon our arrival, however, we found our patient to be semi conscious and incapable of coherent speech. the frazzled doctor and nurse, who commanded me to get the pt to the hospital "NOW!!", disregarding the escort required by protocol, and informed me that our pt, who had a hx of gastric ulcers, had developed severe abd pain, before "deteriorating". i was told that his Spo2 was initially in the 50s but had come up to 81% with an NC. ( Why no hi flow? good question...) i was also informed that the pt had become bradycardic, his current radial pulse being 40 and weak.

i immediately went with some hi flow o2, based on the sats, and some severe visible distress, until i could determine what was going on. i recognized the need for rapid transport. pt was placed on my gurney and taken as fast as possible (with the escort, whom i hurried along) to my bus. it was during the movement to the ambulance that i realized that the pts respirations were at a rate of about 6-8 and were incredibly shallow, and i knew he would need assisted ventilations. as soon as i placed him in my nearby ambulance, i began ventilating and placed an oropharyngeal airway as transport was initiated.

ALS intercept requested but the only available unit was too far away, so we did not utilize them. i continued to ventilate, noticing some involuntary movement upon insertion of the airway, and an increased amount of involuntary movement the more i ventilated the pt. during transport the pulse rate was barely palpable. i was relying mostly on the fact that there was some involuntary movement and some respiratory effort, albeit poor, to assure myself my pt still had a pulse. spo2 during transport was 42% with the pulse oximeter providing a pulse rate of 30.

upon arrival at the ER, pt care was transferred. IV access established, pt RSI`ed etc. at one point during my chart writing i checked on the pt to find HR 70s, presumably after some atropine, bp 150/90, pt being bagged. a later check found the pt being worked in full arrest, from which he later recovered with v/s of palpable pulse of 200, and a b/p of 120/90. this was when i went back in service and left the ED. Some minor assessment details: pupils were dilated, and the ED staff found a fresh track mark on pt`s arm. Follow up with the ED today confirmed that the Pt did not pull through, although the doctor i asked about this pt had no further information other than that he did not make it.

I am just curious as to what others think. I was thinking AAA, but the BP of 150/90 in the ED does not correspond. The track mark could obviously be indicative of an Overdose, but i wonder if that is the only piece of the puzzle here. To those who usually criticize my grammar, i hope this post is a little easier on your eyes.
