I am presenting you with a call which i had, on which the pt, who was intoxicated, appeared to be more than intoxicated, and i was wondering what everyone one here thinks was going on. we are dispatched to a local strip club for a "man down". the bartender meets us outside and tells us he has a man that has came in for a few drinks, but that the man did not seem right coming in, was limping, and just did not seem ok, which is why he called. inside we find a dark and noisy strip joint, not a good place for a thorough assessment. the man is standing, AAOx3, and had no real complaint, stating that he was fine. I decided to continue my assessment in the bus. place the pt in stair chair, remove to ambulance. upon further questioning and assessment, the pt is c/o pain to r. leg, and some minor edema to l. ankle area. pt states he has been in the bar having some drinks. pt is warm dry and pink, lungs clear bilaterally,no visible trauma. pupils PERL. Pt now states HX of diabetes, and quadruple bypass(less than one year ago). pt states he is on a bunch of meds which are home and does not know what meds. pt appears agitated throughout but for the most part is cooperative. upon assessment of V/S RR18 non labored, pulse 100 strong and regular, and B/p of 200/118. due to HTN and cardiac HX, i decided to admin some Oxygen, via NRB. enroute to the hospital, after some 02 pt v/s reassessed, rr 18, pulse 96, bp 150/100. pt care transferred to ed staff. he was placed on a monitor, and v/s in the ED were rr 20 pulse of 120 and b/p of 90/70. at no point did the pt c/o any chest pain or sob or anything else that wasnt mentioned. however, pt did get upset when he found a picture of a deceased relative in his wallet as we were arriving at ED, i do not think this has a bearing on anything, just providing the most complete picture of the call i can. the change in b/p is very interesting. now that think of it, an additional piece of information. my b/ps were all taken on the left arm while the hospital`s b/p was on the right arm (dissection? i doubt it but who knows?
