Received a call for two vehicle MVA. Upon arrival we find two vehicles with major damage. One of the vehicles (#1) has been T-boned on the drivers side and pushed into a telephone pole causing about 40% intrusion on passenger side. Windshield is spiderwebed and also broken out on one side. Car #2 has significant front end damage. Driver of car #1 is lying outside of vehicle on ground upon arrival with a deputy (also paramedic) holding c-spine (only occupant of vehicle). (We asked and were told that someone drug him out of the car before our arrival. Driver of car #2 (only occupant) is still inside car. My paramedic checked on car #1 pt. and pt complains of pelvic pain and also possible loss of consciousness. I check on driver of car #2. She is complaining of neck, lower back, and left leg pain. Pt. of car #1 is packaged and placed in ambulance. We have called for another unit to transport driver of car #2 because my partner is flying the other guy out from the airport which is close by. I stick with pt. of second car. Collar applied and ff/emt is holding c-spine from back seat. I get a set of vitals. BP 170/110, pulse 98, and respirations are 18 NL. Pt has a history of high bp. She is answering all questions asked. ALS unit that was requested is about 8-10 min out. Ok, so here is the question. The paramedic on the other truck was pissed because I did not move her out of the car onto a LSB and put her in the middle of the street until they arrived. I did not do this because of a couple of reasons. 1. she was hysterical and anytime you acted like you were going to touch her she would scream. 2. It was hot outside and would have even been hotter lying on the blacktop. 3. The only place to put her was right in the middle of the accident scene. The ambulance we were working out of was not big enough to hold two pt's and two medics be in the back. Would you have waited to take her out and place her right into the awaiting ambulance or would you have got her out and put her on the ground and waited?


