Unit 136 respond Code2 (non- emergency mode) for a 68 y/o M. post fall. Caller states husband got up slipped and fell approx. 2hrs ago. Denies any decreased LOC Post fall Assessment code 2 will be fine. Dispatch out!

Just as you are pulling into the drive way Dispatch calls back for ETA and an up date and to advise you that the Pt know has a Decreased LOC.

Arrived on scene @ 05:00 hrs scene is safe, Your met at the door by his wife and a family friend. They both state that Joe got up at 03:00 hrs when he tripped over his feet falling to the hard wood floor striking the right side of his head on the base board in the hall. As you and your partner are walking to the master bedroom you noticed a large blood stain on the side of the wall next to where the pt had fallen earlier. You ask his wife was he knocked out she states no but he is C/O of a H/A then she says he has been up to the bathroom several times to Vomit. Just before you guys got here Joe tried to get out of bed but he couldn't and he threw up all over himsef and had a massive BM that the wife had tried to clean up before you go there.

You ask for Joe's medical history wife and friend both stae that Joe has DIC (Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation Dissorder

And has weekly Blood transfusions at the local Hospital. and he is is not allowed to take ASA.

You walk in to the master Bedroom you findyour pt. lying supine in bed covered in vomit and is haveing a seizure. You also notice the pressure bandage that is Blood soaked on the right side of his head. Pt stops the seizure.

You Find 68 male Not alert .

A- Pt has gag reflex post seizure when you try opa

B - 12 times shallow

C- 180/90 p[ulse 120 strong Chemstrip 8.0mmol

Spo2 94 R/A

S/S of trauma is the Rt side of his head 1-2" Lac with Pressure bandage on it

Lungs clear egula bilat

Abd soft NT/ND

pelvis stable / no other s/s of trauma noted

12 lead showed Sinu Tach

Pupils ER left was sluggish

PMH DIC / Blood transfussion weekly / is not allowed to have ASA

one last bit of information as we were back boarding this pt he comes too and is CAOx4 does not want to go to hospital 
