Pt was 47 y/o male, overweight, with History of asthma ( 2 years previous, was prescribed Bronchiodialator once), CC is Chest pain with shortness of breath, feels dizzy, weak, and has numb hands and feet. Appears in distress, looks anxious, deep inhalations but seems effective. First contact was not me. Supervisor let Pt move on own from sitting on a bench to a wheelchair, transport to our 1st Aid room without O2. Super gave O2 about 10 mins after contact, even though I arrived at scene with AED and O2 after 2mins of initial contact. Non- Re breather at 6LPM. Bag not inflated. No vitals taken. Super kept telling me "he's fine, there's no problem". So I leave at the instruction of my on duty Super.

After about 10 mins of O2, Super and Pt walk back to hotel to Pt's room. While walking Pt begins to feel dizzy/ weak, pain comes back, real hard to breath now. Again I attend with AED and O2 to find Pt sitting on a couch in our hallway entrance. He looks scared and is inhaling very deeply. Also, Pt had a spacey look in his eyes, kind of a surprised look. Against my Super's wishes, I quickly asses Pt and Pt tells me ( in a rushed manner with quick words), Chest pain feels burning, pressure in center of chest, "ow-ee", about 3-4 on 10 scale, not radiating, no pain else were. Breathing is harder to do now than at first contact. Pt's wife tells me this happened a week previous and a week and a half before that. Almost any time Pt is physically exerted, especially in hot weather. I give O2 at 15 Lpm with Non-Re breather. Pulse - 82Bpm - regular and strong, Breathing - 16 Resp. per min - big deep inspirations, relaxed on exhale. Skin warm, diaphoretic, red. ( first contact Pt looked Pale). Good even strength in hands and feet. Eyes equal and react to light, 3mm. NKA.

I convinced the Pt to let the EMS have a look at him as I don't have the equipment to properly asses the event. Pt agrees and Fire is there in 3 mins, Ambulance arrives in 5mins. The super stated to 911 that this is non-emergent and that the EMS need not arrive lights and sirens.

EMS on scene, they do their thing and Pt is loaded and gone in about 10 mins.
