EMS brought a 23 year old patient to the er. Patient was found on the floor unresponsive by family. History of hyperthyroidism, PSVT, and depression. Initial assessment findings; very lethargic opens eyes and answers simple yes no commands with verbal command, pupils 5 and very sluggish, slight movement of all ext with command, pale diaphoretic skin and allot of salivation and lacrimation noted, patient was initially able to manage their own airway, P-70 and reg, B/P-80/50, RR-12-14 lungs clear upper bilat and diminished lower bilat, belly soft non tender, no indications of trauma noted, o2 Sat: 99% on NRB, Temp 95 F, ECG sinus rhythm with a 1 st degree AV block. I continued the oxygen and put the bed in a head down feet up position and started two IV's NS wide open. The ER doc came in the room and agreed to a 2000ml fluid bolus. In addition, I put a bair hugger blanket around the pt. Labs were drawn and and a 12 lead was obtained. The family stated the patient quit taking beta blockers and thyroid meds a while ago but did not know anything else, specific meds were unavailable, Pt denied taking any substances. A foley was inserted and ongoing assessments continued. The B/P did not improve with two liters of fluid and the pt remained pale, lethargic, and diaphoretic. A neosynephrine gtt was ordered, I mixed it and started at 40 micrograms/min and started a 3rd IV just in case. The pressure stabilized at around 100-110 systolic. Then X-ray entered the room and I helped him get the machine in position for a portable, suddenly the patient started throwing up. I rolled the patient on their side and started to suction, the patient continued to throw up and sats dropped to 89-90%. I continued to suction and call for help. The doctor decided to intubate and RSI meds were given. The patient was intubated with a 7.5 ETT and placement was verified. An NG was also placed. A chest X ray was performed and the patient was put on the vent (TV 750 PEEP 5 R 14 FIO2 100). An initial ABG showed PH 7.44 O2 144 CO2 18 Bicarb 22) the vent settings were changed (TV 700 PEEP 5 R 14 FIO2 80) Labs started rolling in UDS neg, H & H 6&18, K+ 2.1, WBC 18, ETOH 230, chest xray-good tube placement, infiltrates everywhere (not the acute aspiration looking stuff-it looks like the patient has been sick for a while), and a huge heart. The house supervisor started making calls for a transfer while I pushed meds and hung drips. We did a K run, 2 units of blood, and rocephin, I gave vec and fentanyl for sedation/paralysis. The flight team arrived and we package the patient for transport. The funny thing is the Et Co2 was about 17-19 and this was confirmed with ABGs. Did we blow it all off or poor cardiac out put? I just wanted to get your input on the case. This was a sick patient with allot of problems.
