Medic 19 dispatched priority @ 1854 to a private residence for an 85 year old male experiencing SOB and CP. PT states he was attempting to drain the water from his basement following his sump pump malfunctioning. As he became more anxious, he began having increased difficulty breathing and SOB, accompanied with sub sternal CP. PT states he took one 0.4mg NTG SL 10 minutes prior to our arrival with full relief. PT has a history of NIDDM, a MI over 10 years ago, a Coronary Bypass 6 years ago, HTN, GERD and anxiety. Pts medications include Simvastatin, Glipizide, Losartan, Zantac and NTG. PT has a sensitivity to Morphine Sulfate and is allergic to shellfish. PT has been complaint with his medication, according to his wife. PTs last meal was a chicken breast and rice. 

Upon our arrival PT was found sitting on the couch, in a high state of anxiety due to his flooded basement. PT was CAOx3, GCS 15, with no signs of trauma noted. He was breathing rapidly and complaining of SOB and tingling around his lips and his fingers. He stated he had some “chest tightness earlier, but it was gone now” following his NTG administration. PT skin was pink,warm and dry. BASELINE VITALS: HR 92, BP: 150/80, RESPIR 26, SpO2 98% on RA. TEMP: 98.4. BGL: 112 12 LEAD: NSR at a rate of 88, with no ST elevation noted. HEENT: Pupils PERRL, no signs of trauma noted. No TD or JVD noted. CHEST: Lung sounds: Clear and equal bilaterally. ABD: Soft and non tender. PELVIS: Intact. EXTREM: PT had good PMS in all extremities.

Pt transported to Hospital ED R/O anxiety/hyperventilation.

BSI, PT contact and interview. Vitals as above. PT placed on monitor and 12 lead obtained within 10 minutes of our arrival. (Attached). PT placed on 3 lpm of O2 via NC with ETCO2. PT was able to stand and pivot to stretcher and was secured with safety straps. Pt was moved to ambulance for detailed exam which was unremarkable. IV access was obtained in L AC 18G with 1000ml of NS set at TKO rate. During transport, PT was coached on slowing his breathing and would slow for a short time and then immediately return to his previous tachynpea. En route VITALS: HR: 88, BP: 132/70, RESPIR: 24 and non labored. SpO2: 100 on 3 lpm via NC. ETCO2: 27. Lungs remained clear and equal bilaterally. PT tolerated transport well and stated that he continued to be pain free. Telephone report to ED was made to notify staff of impending arrival. Upon arrival at ED, PT was moved to room 2 via 3 person draw sheet lift. Report given to John Doe, RN. Prior to leaving the ED, I notified the PT that the crew from Engine 18 had repaired his sump pump and his basement was being pumped out. He seemed to relax somewhat after hearing that news. Transport occurred without incident or complication and Medic 19 returned to service at 1957.
