Medic 27 responded emergent to a motor vehicle accident. Upon arrival, contacted a 53 year old female, restrained driver of a four door, mid- size vehicle struck from the rear. Immediately following the event the patient reports experiencing tingling in her neck radiating up into the occipital region. The patients vehicle was traveling approximately 5 MPH stopping for a light. Struck in rear drivers side quarter-panel by another vehicle then came to rest. The primary forces in this collision were rearward to the drivers side. Windshield and steering wheel intact. Headrest height appropriate. The patient does not report striking the interior of the vehicle. The vehicles passenger space and roof remained intact. The vehicles airbag system did not deploy. The patient denies loss of consciousness before or after incident, pain in head, neck, chest or back, shortness of breath, use of alcohol or drugs, headache, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, numbness or tingling in extremities and localized paralysis. A bystander called 911 for assistance.

Upon initial contact, patient laying in bed in bedroom. Alert and oriented to name, place, time and event. Skin warm and dry with normal color and tone. Mild muscle tremors (shivers) in arms and legs. Patient does report feeling cold. Head normocephalic without abnormality on visualization or palpation. Neck midline and intact without pain on palpation or movement. Thoracic, lumbar and sacral spine intact without pain on palpation or spontaneous movement. Chest intact with equal expansion, unremarkable on visualization and palpation. Lung sounds clear and equal bilaterally with normal tidal volume. Breathing pattern normal. No odor on breath noted. Abdomen soft, non- tender, atraumatic and unremarkable on visualization and palpation to all quadrants, without masses or rigidity noted. Pelvis and hips stable and intact without pain or crepitus on palpation anterior or lateral. Incontinent to urine. Legs and knees intact and atraumatic. Arms are intact and atraumatic. No language barrier existed between patient and providers.
Neurological Examination:
Patient’s pupils equal, round and reactive to light. Patient does not present with observable perseveration, short or long term memory loss or confusion. Major motor neuros intact. Gross sensory assessment intact with normal sensation throughout. Assessment revealed no abnormal neurological findings. All observable neurological assessments remained unchanged after transport to hospital.

Patient transported non-emergent to Aurora Medical Center emergency room. Patient transported without change in status or level of consciousness. Patients treatment plan included full secondary assessment, detailed neurological examination, vital signs, cardiac monitoring, pulse oximetry and supplemental oxygen. Following hand off report to staff, patient left in hospital bed with rails up and staff in attendance.

