A 52 year-old male calls 911 complaining of shoulder and neck pain after seeing his Chiropractor. Initially, a BLS ambulance is dispatched. On arrivial the BLS crew notes that the patient is plae and soaked in a cold sweat. He is very anxious and in obvious distress.


Physical Exam:

Physical exam finds that the patient is anxious, tachy (120's), hypertensive (220/114), and tachypenea (30's). SpO2 = 95%. His lungs are clear. Skin is pale and soaked in cold sweat. No JVD. Beeds of sweat run down the patient's face. Pulses strong and regular x 4. No N+V. No GU issues.

He describes the pain as 'numbness' in his shoulder and right arm and scores it as 9/10. He also states that his chest feels tight. Like a band squeezing him. In addition, the patient had had similar episodes over the past two weeks. However, the pain was quite mild in comparison. Nothing in particular caused the pain and it just 'Went away on its own.'

History:

Past medical history is obtained from his mother and sister (who are quite anxious). They state that he has a long history of neck and should pain which he see a Chiropractor frequently. They add that the Chiropractor didn't do aggressive manipulation of the patient's neck. He also has a history of HTN, Anxiety, Depression, Dyslipemia and Cancer (...not sure what type...but treatment was effective...). He also quite smoking 15 years ago. His only drug allergey is to Ativan.

Currently, he takes Ramipril 10mg PO OD, Immovaine 15mg PO QHS, Lipitor 40mg PO QD, and Advil PRN, Tyl PRN, and Tyl#3 PRN for pain.

Family History:


Noteworthy family history includes a father who die of a MI a 50. A family history of depression and suicides.



Current Situation..........


The BLS calls fro ALS and insert a #20 IV in the patients left hand (...a hard start...) and place the patient on nasal canulas at 3 lpm. ALS arrives shortly. Total scene time has been 10 minutes so far. They hospital is 15 minutes away. They have a good ED, ICU, CCU but no ango.


ALS has 12-lead EKG, CPAP, TNK and ALS medications.
