Dispatched to an 11 yo male having headaches x 3 days. AOSTF patient laying in parents' bed screaming b/c fire department had just poked his finger for a glucose check. BGL=187. Hx-ADHD and currently no meds, NKA. Patient started c/o bad headache Thursday, woke up this morning completely disoriented. He would not follow commands or respond appropriately to parents-just walked around the house. When we would stop touching him, he would calm down and become compliant enough that he walked himself to the stretcher. NSR on monitor. Slightly brady on 12-lead (55 bpm), but did not raise concern as he was a very fit 11 yo. He would c/o pain one moment and then not have pain several miutes later. When I would stop talking to him or touching him, he would become lethargic. I was prepared for him to be a little combative, but he completely freaked out when I went to start the IV to the point of trying to grab the needle out of my hand. I said forget it, had my partner upgrade to emergency traffic and just got him to the hospital. His bp remained stable about 120/70 the whole time. The remainder of transport he screamed anytime I would say something. PEARL,mom denies drugs/meds, trauma, sickle cell, fever, neck pain, or any illness other than headache.

My guess was meningitis, my partner thought a tumor. I've seen a good number of psyc patients and violent drug addicts, but this kid was about as close to possessed as I've come across. It took 4ml of Ativan to calm him just so we could leave and not have to help restrain him. He started screaming again after we left, think they were doing a foley. I found out from the hospital he was transferred to Tx Children's with encephalitis. He did not test positive for meningitis. My best friend works at Tx Children's and did an xray on him this afternoon. He's in ICU, intubated, restrained, and posturing from the consistent seizures. They haven't found a reason for the continued swelling in his brain. Anyone run into something similar? I'm completely baffled and in shock that my disoriented, ambulatory patient might now become a vegetable if he survives and he had no symptoms or than disorientation and an unexplained headache.
