Dispatched for 94 yo female "possible heart attack"

You arrive on scene in a very nice home and are taken upstairs by the homeowner. On the way up she states her mother called her an hour ago and she came home from work then dialed 911. You enter an upstairs bedroom where the local FD has already initiated care. You see a 94 yo slightly obese woman sitting in a chair with her head tilted slightly back wearing a NRB who appears very lethargic and is not purposefully moving.

FD reports PT is actually AOx4 just slow to respond. She is complaining of chest pressure but they think it may be a stroke because her grips "are very weak and she can't smile". They also state she has a Hx of TIA's and are just finishing up her initial set of vitals.

You approach the patient and find a strong radial pulse, breathing is around 18 a min and adequate (CBL or clear bilat). When you ask the PT her name her eyes are open but she doesn't track you and she responds after 3-4 seconds in a quiet voice with the correct answer which she also does for the rest of your AO questions. Her answers continue to be sluggish and it's almost as if she's having trouble speaking because the answers are short and muffled. You determine that her chest "hurts" and both arms "hurt" and she is "very tired". You also confirm the very weak grips and when you ask her to smile she just doesn't seem to do it.

BP 150/90 HR 112 Sinus Tach on monitor.... RR 18 SP02 100% (on 02)

The decision to move to the ambulance is made and a stair chair is used. On the way down you talk to the daughter again who explains that her mom is usually able to move around with a walker and is "very active mentally". She says she has a Hx of TIA's and "heart stuff" and you grab the bucket'o'meds:

Morphine, Lorazepam, Celexa, Warfarin, Levothyroid, Zyprexia, Macro (thats all the FD wrote down and it wasnt in the bin), Coumadin, Nifedipine - No allergies (Daughter didn't mention anything about pysch issues on scene)

Hx: HTN, valve disease, CHF, Pulmonary Embolus, TIA

You get into the ambulance and while the EMT gets the 12 lead ready and a BP is being re-taken you do a physical. PT has circumoral pallor, edema in both ankles (chronic), skins is white/pale warm and dry, lung sounds are still clear and adequate. Pain is described as "pressure" and is mid sternum going to left arm. Nothing makes it better or worse (including palpation) and 1 to 10 = "alot". PT states 6 hours ago she began to feel weak. about 2-3 hours later she noticed the chest pressure then a headache. Everything is getting progressively worse. She denies any recent illness and says she's had this pain before but is unable to ellaborate.

New vitals: BP 176/96 HR 98 Sinus Rhythm RR 18 SP02 100%. EKG: (sorry don't have a copy!) No STEMI,the QRS is crappy looking (lots of zigs and zags) but never over .10 in size. No T wave inversion or depression (some leads show elevation and depression of less than 1mm).

So you are 12 mins from the Kaiser hospital she belongs to with another hospital that is a stroke center with a cath lab about 1/2 mile away from the Kaiser hospital.

I didn't find anything else out during the call and had to make my decision on where to transport and whether to treat her for chest pain or for a CVA. I was aware of the possible contraindications for ASA and nitro in a CVA so I was having a hard time making a decision on what to do (also why she didn't get CP meds early in the call).

