EMS crews were dispatched to the home of an 81-year-old male. His sister found him lying on a bed. When he didn't respond to her, 9-1-1 was contacted. He had complained to friends that he hadn't been feeling well for three to four days, and neighbors who had periodically checked on him thought he was sleeping for more than 24 hours.

Upon arrival, the crew noted the patient to be unconscious with snoring respirations. The past medical history included non-insulin dependant diabetes and hypertension. Medications included metformin and glipizide, as well as an unspecified beta blocker for hypertension. According to the sister and friends, the patient hadn't expressed any suicidal ideations and didn't possess a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) order of any type.

Physical assessment of the man demonstrated obvious coma with persistent trismus (stiff jaw). Copious amounts of emesis were present in the mouth and on the face. The initial vital signs included a heart rate of 89 beats per minute, blood pressure 150/82 mmHg and respirations of 24 per minute. The cardiac monitor demonstrated a sinus rhythm at a rate consistent with the pulse. Room air oxygen saturation was 82%. No end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2) value was obtained prior to intubation attempts. The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) was estimated to be 3. The remainder of the physical examination was reported to be unremarkable.

Oxygen at 15 liters via non-rebreather mask was placed with improvement in oxygen saturation to 92%. Blood sugar determination revealed a value of 20 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). After an IV line was successfully placed, the patient received 25 grams of dextrose. The follow-up blood sugar was 93 mg/dL. No improvement in mentation was noted.

Given the patient's continued coma and apparent inability to protect the airway, consideration was given to Rapid Sequence Intubation (RSI) by EMS personnel. The pre-intubation airway assessment suggested the possibility of a difficult airway. The patient was noted to be obese. The neck seemed short and there was limited mouth opening to work with. The crew discussed these factors and, after some debate, elected to proceed. No 12-lead ECG was obtained prior to beginning the RSI.

The estimated weight was 110 kg. The patient was given appropriate dosages of etomidate and succinylcholine. Adequate paralysis was achieved. One attempt to intubate was made but was unsuccessful. During this time the head was repositioned and a bougie was utilized, but neither helped.

The patient was ventilated with a bag-valve-mask (BVM) and was suctioned. It was decided to place a Combitube. But this device was not able to be inserted far enough into the mouth and was ultimately abandoned.

Vital signs at this point were documented to consist of a blood pressure of 190/112 mmHg, respirations 12 per minute assisted, and a pulse rate of 48 beats per minute. Sinus bradycardia was seen on the monitor. No pulse oximetry value was recorded at this time. An oral airway was inserted, and the patient was continued on the BVM.

The patient rapidly became more bradycardic and then developed asystole on the monitor. No pulses could be palpated.

CPR was initiated.
