I had a guy one night with similar injury. But his vertebral artery dissection was due to being punched in the face. Of course it had to be in the middle of a bar parking lot in a torrential downpour.

KEYSTONE, Colo. -- A 28-year-old snowboarder who fell "quite hard on her buttocks" during a beginner's run at Keystone Ski Resort died from irreversible brain damage, the Summit County Coroner concluded.

Jennifer Ash, of Indianapolis, was snowboarding on the Ina's Way run when she fell March 16. The Ski Patrol was not notified because her fall was not deemed serious.

However, when she continued to experience pain, her friends drove her to Summit Medical Center where she was evaluated. She was airlifted to St. Anthony's Central Hospital in Denver where it was discovered that she had suffered "vertebral artery dissection" or a tear in a vertebral artery, which resulted in a "basilar artery stroke and brain damage," Coroner Joanne L. Richardson said in a report.

Ash had irreversible brain damage from the stroke and was pronounced brain-dead four days later, on March 23. The manner of her death has been ruled accidental.

"This type of injury occurs with an indirect trauma -- where there is a whipping motion of the neck that can be a hyperextension or from side to side. The decedent was not wearing a helmet, although it would not have assisted in this case," Richardson said in her report.

"We are sorry to hear about her death. The resort extends our deepest sympathies to her friends and family," said Keystone spokeswoman Kate Lessman.

She said the resort wasn't told of the injury on the mountain and didn't know about Ash's injury until Friday, when the coroner released her report.

"Usually, when there's an incident on the mountain, the people in the party will call the ski patrol. The ski patrol was not contacted in this case," Lessman said.

Ash had arrived in Colorado the day before with friends for vacation. She was a pharmacy professor at Butler University in Indianapolis.

She received her doctorate in pharmacy from Butler in 2003, and was in her first academic year on faculty at Butler's College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, according to Butler spokeswoman Courtney Tuell.
