EMS is dispatched to a middle aged hispanic man for an unknown medical.

Patient is a middle aged, 40 something hispanic male found in a hotel, where he works. Staff states they saw the man "drink something from his cart" and then "go unreponsive". The time course is not concrete, it sounds like earlier on (within the hour) was the drinking, now is altered mental. Medics interpreted "unresponsive" from the staff as "severely altered mental," since he is now a GCS of 6 and getting worse. Staff activated EMS immediately and phoned family who is present upon receipt of patient at the hospital. EMS arrival is within 10 nminutes of call, and to hospital in another 10.

GCS: 6, Vitals are WNL (80, 120/70, good cap refill, sating 98%, breathing fine), lungs are clear, bowels are continent, sugar is 65. 12 Lead reveals no significant findings.

at this point, the prehospital differential needs to be drawn. Deteriorating altered mental status moving towards 3, gag reflex intact. No hx, allergies of medications that anyone knows of. Possible toxic ingestion of an unknown fluid.

What do you do? What do you think is wrong? Stop here and think about what you would do, what information you might like and where you would go with this. Your "trauma center/major med" hospital is 10 minutes away.

The medics enroute administered narcan 0.8 IV, and have an amp of D50 (25g), 15LPM NRB. Differential was left at unknown altered mental secondary to toxic ingestion.

In the ER assessment revealed a GCS of 3, one pupil may be enlarged (left 2.5, right 2), vital signs remained unchanged. No babinski. No other significant findings.

Family is spanish speaking and small history is obtained. It seems that this man is middle-aged, works in the hotel, has no history, allergies, or medications. He has worked at this hotel (which is a fairly expensive one... its no motel 6, nor is it the W or the Ritz-Carlton) for some years, and it is his regular employment.

Patient is induced and intubated, Chest X-ray reveals proper tube placement and clear lungs, no mediastinal shift, no abnormalities in lung fields or in axial skeleton. NG tube is placed and 20cc of fluid is removed. It appears to be gastric secretions of normal color. It is sent to pathology for analysis. A foley catheter is inserted and draws 250mL of urine, standard tox screen is negative. This all happens in 5 minutes. CT scan comes back with "diffuse edema, MRI ordered."

I left my rotation prior to hearing what the path screen on the gastric contents was and no MRI was conducted on my way out. The doc on staff was pretty sure it was a CVA. I disagreed, but kept my mouth shut... she has the MD and about 10 years of experience in an ER on top of my 2.5 in a truck.
