It is a cold, wet and miserable early winter morning and you are responded to a patient fallen outside a block of units. Nothing unusual here, until further information reveals the patient has fallen from a 2nd storey balcony and has become impaled on a metal fence ... ok we're awake now!

2 cars are responded, a primary care (BLS) vehicle and an intensive care (ALS) vehicle.

On arrival you find a slightly built female in her mid 50's, who was lucky enough to have been found by a now very animated neighbour, only minutes after she had fallen from a balcony about 9 metres from the ground. The trajectory of her fall can be traced by the many broken branches of the large tree through which she has plummeted, landing on the fence. Despite the rain, the cold and the time of day, this neighbour heard her fall and got out of bed to investigate, where he found her impaled on two metal poles of the fence surrounding the unit block. She is still in this position on your arrival, with one pole penetrating her right anterior chest and the other her left antero-axillar chest. Neither pole has exited through the other side of her chest, but the pole through the right side of her chest could be palpated under the skin around her right scapula. Her entire weight was still hanging from the poles with only her toes just touching the ground. Her head had fallen forward occluding her airway.

Her observations are: GCS = 3, pulse = 0, respirations = 0, pale, cyanosed mucosa, monitored in an idio ventricular rhythm at 40/min.

What would you do?

1. Do you call the patient deceased? They have had a considerable fall, is currently in cardiac arrest following trauma, and is still impaled on the fence. (I am unaware of other services protocols but this is permitted under ours).

2. Do you try and treat her while on the fence? Call rescue to cut the poles and transport with them insitu.

3. Do you attempt to remove her from the fence and treat/transport urgently? Going strictly by protocol (ours), impaled objects should not be removed unless intra cardiac and ecm is required!


