31yo Caucasian female was sitting on couch watching tv when she noticed a squeezing pain just to left of her sternum in upper chest. Pain would come and go for about 15 minutes. Husband walked in and asked pt if she was okay. She put her hand to chest and said she didn't feel good. Moments later pt said her entire body went numb and she was having severe and constant pressure pain in the middle of her upper sternum. She tells husband she needs to go to the hospital because something is very wrong. Her entire body from head to toe goes numb. She stands up from couch walks 2 steps and then her knees lock and her whole body starts to shake. Husband says he grabbed pt and was able to move her back to the couch laying in fowlers position. Then pt started gasping for air and complaining she couldn't breath and felt like she was suffocating.

Upon arrival to scene, husband is waiting outside for paramedics. He is rushes to them in saying his wife can't breath and thinks she is having a heart attack.

31yo female is found on the couch with head lifted up and knees bent. She is having shallow, labored breathing (approximately 6bpm) and she begs for O2 between breaths. Medics apply NR with high flow O2 and they start vitals and taking history. Pt is relatively healthy, 8yr old child. She had a kidney infection 4 months prior to and a hysterectomy 2.5yrs ago due to endometriosis. She denies any strenuous activity or sleeping wrong. However, pt was at a party the night before and had been drinking heavily. Pt does not smoke or use recreational drugs. Current medications include paxil and welbutrin for anxiety/depression and pt had recently been taking adipex for just over a month for weight loss.

After approximately 5 minutes of high flow O2 pt starts responding more and answering more questions. She says her pain is now a 5 from a 7. Medic palpates chest and pt screams when touches sternum just to side of left breast indicating chest wall pain.

Vitals:

5'8

165lbs

bp 147/93

hr: 105

resp 8bpm shallow and labored

skin is dry and warm

lung sounds clear and bilateral

temp 100.3

good pms

12-lead showed no sign on MI

Package pt and load. Start line and medic contacts medical control on whether to give nitro. MD says to only give baby asa for now. Medics comply and eta to ER is 12-15 minutes.

At ER pt continues to improve and now only complains of chest tenderness. Respiratory returns to 14bpm and heart rate drops to 91. Temp hovers just over 99 for the first few hours and then stabilizes. BP drops to 137/p and 2nd ekg again confirms no sign of cardiac emergency. All blood work comes back normal. All vitals return to normal by end of night and only cc pt still has is chest tenderness and severe chest pain when eating.


