I have an autistic son named Dylan and one of my greatest fears is that he will need EMS without his mother or I around.

Assuming you came to him after a schoolbus rollover accident and are unable to reach his parents or teacher, how would you assess and care for him?

I don't know enough to know what is important to include here, so I'll do my best. (Maybe it doesn't matter so much in this situation?)

He has a 6cm lac at his right temple, no deformation to the skull, also a swollen and deformed right wrist. Slight swelling and bruising to right lower abdomen. His airway is patent. I would be highlighting my ignorance if I attempted rr/hr/bp/pupils. Maybe you can make assumptions as to normals for this high stress situation?

He is 9 years old and almost completely without the ability to communicate to strangers. (He has some ASL (American Sign Language) but much of it is specific to him and his communication with his family and teachers)

He has an unusually high threshold for pain. (For example, almost no reaction to getting his fingers slammed in a car door in the past)

His motor functions are pretty standard except that he is somewhat clumsy when excited or moving fast.

To most any question you ask he will answer "My name is Dylan"

Ex: Where do you live, what is your name, how old are you?

If you ask if something hurts he will answer "yes" to all, unless he thinks that answer makes you unhappy, in which case he will begin to answer "no" to all.

He has no concept of the passage of time, or any measurable concept of abstract thought. (No when, why, how long, did you, are you, can you)

In this situation he will almost certainly be either completely calm and nearly unreachable mentally or have somewhat manic behavior where he will notice almost everything to distraction. (Lets go with manic) (He will pull out IVs, fight Oxygen, etc)

He hates to be touched except by his mother or myself and will certainly panic and fight against a c-collar and backboard.

As his father I expect to hate any answer that doesn't involve one of our lady medics wrapping him in her arms and smothering him with kindness until I get there...(Medik8, can I put you on call for my boy?) but I'm curious to see how this would work. Perhaps it will help me better prepare him....just in case.

To many of you this is probably not a big deal...been here...done this...but it seems like a horror to me, having no real world experience...
