[Ambulance 61, respond priority 1 to Wadsworth Rd and Newport St for a man down. That’s A61, Wadsworth and Newport for the person spotted down in the street. Response with Engine 3. Time out 18:44. A61?]
You respond with lights and sirens. As you pull down Wadsworth toward the intersection at Newport, Engine 3 is coming from the other direction, and you put yourselves on scene at the same time. Everyone slows down and starts chicken-necking, scanning the sidewalks for a body.
After a moment, you spot it; an adult male lying on his side, underneath an overhang, with his head upon a bundled jacket. Engine 3 parks at the curb and Steve wedges the ambulance into a gap, leaving just enough room for traffic to pass. Since you’re about ten feet from the patient, and you’re suspicious that you know what’s going on, you take the radio and leave the rest of the gear for now.
Donning gloves as you approach the patient, you see an older man dressed in numerous layers, generally dirty; a strong fruity odor greets you from several feet back. Checking the ground to make sure you don’t stick yourself on a needle, you come alongside and kneel.
You shake him briskly by the shoulder. “Hey!”
Grumbling, he rolls over. You see an alert but groggy male who easily localizes you. “Wha?”
“Hi. What’s up?”
His speech is slurred and sounds annoyed. “What do you want?”
“I’m Sam. What’s going on? You’re laying on the sidewalk.”
“I’m sleeping.”
“Are you feeling okay?”
“I’m fine!” he grunts.
“What’s your name?”
“… Richard.”
“Okay, Richard. Have you been drinking?”
There’s a pause, then he mutters, “Yeah!”
Behind you, a Scenarioville PD cruiser pulls up.
“How much have you had?”
“Couple beers.”
Finding one wrist hidden among numerous jackets, you palpate a radial pulse. His skin is warm and dry, and his pulse is strong, regular, and perhaps slightly rapid. You can’t see any obvious trauma, but there’s not much of him visible. His breathing seems unremarkable.
“Did you fall or anything, or are you just napping?”
“I’m just… I lay down.”
The SPD officer approaches. A firefighter informs him, “Drunk.”
“Any drugs today, Richard?”
“No, no.”
The officer is briskly patting him down as he struggles a little, slightly annoyed but not combative. He finds a flask-sized glass bottle of cheap vodka in one pocket, empty except for a swallow or two. A thick wallet comes out as well, and the officer flips it open. “Richard O’Connor. Scenarioville address.”
You peer closer to see his eyes. His pupils are equal and perhaps slightly larger than you’d expect for this time of evening. A sweet odor is strong on his breath, and he appears unwashed for at least the past few days.
“So is anything bothering you, or are you feeling okay?”
“I’m fine, go away.”
“Okay, Richard, the problem is that you’re sleeping on the sidewalk in a public area. Do you live around here?”
He shouts at you, “I live on the street!”
“All right. But again, we can’t have you here like this, okay? Someone’s going to ride a bike over you or something. Is there somewhere you can go?”
Unblinking, he stares at you. After a few seconds, you punt: “Let’s try and stand up at least.”
Together, three of you work to pull him to a seated position. He is mostly flaccid. Taking him by the hands, you’re able to pull him into a standing position with substantial effort, but he is limp and totally uncoordinated, unable to stand on his own. You lower him back to the ground, where he immediately rolls back onto his pillow, content.
“Okay, Richard, okay.” You give a head-nod to Steve, who walks back to your truck and pulls out the stretcher. “We can’t have you falling over in the street like this. We’re going to bring you to the hospital, all right?”
He grunts. Pulling the stretcher alongside and lowering it, you again perform a heavily-assisted pull to standing and help Richard turn and sit-fall onto the stretcher, pull his feet up, and throw a blanket over him before buckling the straps. You load him up into the ambulance and pile in.
“Can you snag some vitals?” you ask Steve. He sits at the patient’s right and starts trying to pull an arm free for a blood pressure. On the other side, you clean off a finger and perform a finger-stick. The blood glucose comes back as 82.
“108 over palp,” Steve tells you; he was able to get the outermost jacket off, “thinning” the arm enough for a cuff to get traction, but couldn’t pull up the remaining sleeves enough to put his scope onto the AC. “Pulse 98.” He jots those down for you.
“Okay, let’s go. St. Vincent’s.” He heads up front. You ask Richard to squeeze your hand and flex and extend his feet against resistance, briefly palpate his abdomen and pat him down for obvious trauma; you find nothing exciting. Checking the wallet, you jot down his name and date-of-birth. “Is anything else going on, Richard? Is this a normal amount for you to drink?”
“Yeah.” He seems to be falling asleep again.
“Do you have any medical problems?”
“Um… no.”
“Taking any medications?”
“No.”
“Are you allergic to anything?”
“No.”
Grabbing the radio, you make this report (click for audio):
[Evening, St. Vincent, Scenarioville Ambulance 61. We’re four minutes out with a 37-year-old male, found down on the sidewalk. EtOH, no drugs or trauma, he’s sleepy but doing fine. Any questions?]
“No, we’ll be waiting,” they reply.
You arrive and have Richard scoot into a hallway bed at the ED. A somewhat harried-looking nurse takes a quick report (click for audio) as you put the rails up and settle the blanket over him.
[So this is Richard; he’s 37. Someone called because he was napping on the sidewalk down by the highway. Says he had a couple beers; we found one of those 200-ml bottles of vodka on him, empty. Denies any drugs, no trauma, say he just lay down. Vitals are good, sugar is 84. Very sleepy. Denies any medical history, says this is pretty typical for him.]
She nods. “We know him well.” Dragging over a vitals monitor, she starts helping him pull off coats. “What are you doing, Richard? You know you can’t sleep there.”
You pat him on the shin and say good-bye; he waves at you absent-mindedly. You wash your hands, pick up a demographics sheet from registration, and head outside, where Steve has just finished wiping everything down and airing out the odor from the back. Clearing up over the radio, dispatch sends you to post at headquarters. You have some dinner in the fridge that’s starting to sound pretty good.


