Immediate response with lights & sirens to a 911 call for a 43 YO F who had fallen and could not get up. Upon arrival at scene pt found laying supine in front of her couch. Pt awake, alert and oriented but in obvious distress/appeared to be actively seizing. Pt states history of dystonia, "3 or
so" episodes of similar severity in the past 6 months. Pt's speech and breathing labored but appropriate and intelligible. Pt placed on cot via 3 person lift and secured with straps x3, rails x2. Pt moved via cot to ambulance & loaded for transport. Departed scene emergent with lights. Pt provided med list which was given to medic; pt states allergic to morphine and "other drugs" on list given to medic. 20 g IV w/ saline lock established on pt's R AC (15 ml
NS flush); medic administered 1 mL of Ativan; pt states no change in condition. Medic administered another 1 mL of Ativan; pt condition seemed to improve somewhat but still in obvious distress. Continued to monitor pt status during transport; transport time too short for second set of vitals. Upon arriving at MRMC ED, pt unloaded from ambulance via cot and moved via cot to assigned ER room. Pt moved from cot to bed via 3 person lift & secured via rails x2. Medic provided full report and medical history/medication list to nursing staff and pt left in ER staff's care. END OF REPORT.
Immediate response with lights & sirens to a 911 call for a 59 YO F who could
not get out of bed. PTOA, FD on scene. FD reports pt's HR 115, weak & rapid.
Pt found in bed, supine. PT opened eyes to verbal stimulus, responded to
sternum rub, disoriented. Pupils sluggish and pinpoint. Pt skin presented
cold, clammy, and pale. Pt had R leg amputated proximal to the knee when she
was 7 years old according to family. Family provided medic with pt's bag of medications and list of allergies. Pt moved from bed to cot via 4-person lift
with bedsheet and secured to cot via straps x3 rails x2. Pt moved to ambulance
via cot and loaded into ambulance. 7 total IV attempts made, none successful (L hand 24 g; L AC 22 g x2; R AC 20 g x2; R hand 20 g x2). Vitals taken en route:
BG 252; BP 80/30; HR 115, slightly irregular/slightly weak; RR 12 shallow; SPO2
49 on RA. Applied O2 to pt via NRB @ 15 LPM; SPO2 not improved; NP airway #7 inserted right nare & O2 via NRB @ 15 LPM re-applied. SPO2 improved slightly to 57. Upon arrival at MRMC ED, pt unloaded from ambulance and moved to assigned room. Pt moved from cot to bed via 3-person lift with bedsheet and secured with rails x2. Medic provided MRMC ED staff with full report, pt's medications &
history & pt left in care of MRMC ED staff. END OF REPORT.
Version: 16-Dec-12
D- Dispatched to scene of 49 yof complaining of severe abdominal pains.
C- Patient reported to EMS on 11-18-12 that she is having severe sharp abdominal
pain in her lower left side and that she feels nauseous. When the tried to stand she became light headed and disoriented.
H-Patient reports that is having severe abdominal pain in the LLQ. Patient was lying in bed and has not been feeling well over the last few hours. Patient was difficulty breathing and began to feel sharp pains in her lower left
side. Patient has a history of open heart surgery and an aneurysm. Patient state that she is allergic to Ibuprofin and Percocet. Patient did not state any further medical history.
A- Patient was sitting in the tri-pod position on the edge of her bed showing
signs of labored breathing. Patient was placed on O2 15 l/pm NRB. Patients breathsounds were equal bilateral clear. Patient was assisted to the cot on her front porch. Straps x 3, Rails x 2. Palpated teh abdominal area to check for sensitivity. No signs of guarding was present. Patient reports pain severity to be a 10 on 1-10 scale.
Vital signs: BP-108/88,P-70 strong and regular,RR-24 slightly labored but adequate on NRB,Sa02 97%,Pupils-Pearl,Skin-Normal WD,
Vital signs: BP-118/80,P-78 strong and regular,RR-20,Sa02 100% on NRB, Pupils-Pearl, Skin-Normal WD,
Patient was AAOx3 during assessment and transportation.
R-Oxygen was provided by NRB 15 l/pm during assessment.
T- Patient was transported to Maury Regional Hospital with difficulty breathing improved. PCR was given to medical staff upon arrival. Assisted to bed rails x 2.
