I awoke to feel my heart pounding, was a bit flushed. Though not diaphoretic, I had that prickly feeling in my face and arms that seems to precede it. Slight dispnea, no chest pain or pressure, slight dizziness, but I'm unsure if that was from physiology or from anxiety over the episode.

My pulse rate would run up to around 130, pulse bounding, I was very cardiac aware so unsure if there was anything unusual there or if my attention made it seem that my heart was beating harder than usual.

The first episode lasted (not timed, my 'feeling' only) maybe 4-5 mins with me kind of freaking, (breathing slowly, trying to stay calm) out before it occured to me to try and v/v (vasovagal) it down, which I was able to do by holding my breath and bearing down. Rate quickly (15-20 secs) dropped to around 80 (baseline is 60ish), stayed there for "a couple of minutes" and then over approximately a minute and a half to two minutes crawled back up to the 130's. I was again able to v/v back down. I v/v four or five times over, what Babs tells, me was a half hour or so before things seemed to settle down and stay put.

The second episode was more or less the same though the duration was approx. 15 minutes this time. Was able to mitigate several times with carotid massage. (It was interesting to try these techniques on myself. It finally occurred to me to have Babs get me a cold towel for my face to see how that compared, but the issue didn't repeat for me to try it. Though it will be on the top of my list for next time.)

No other s/s that I'm aware of surrounding these episodes or in daily life.

49 years old, 6'/220lbs, asymptomatic during regular exercise, lifetime smoker, no significant previous medical history, no n/v, chest pain/pressure, has regular physicals/ECGs due to work, no illegal drug use, no prescription meds, Melatonin periodically for sleep, but not on these occasions, OTCs periodically for head/backache, baseline vitals P 60ish, BP 126/74, RR 12ish with no history of respiratory issues, no recent illness, no unusual stresses.

It did kind of feel like times gone by when I'd have an anxiety attack, but there was no tachypnea and controlling my breathing didn't seem to mitigate the issues in any way.


